hello everyone its Elena and I'm back
another video and today we will be
reacting to the feeling blue mental
health at Cambridge documentary which
well obviously is about mental health at
Cambridge now I'm somebody who's
currently on a break from University for
mental health reasons and I became which
student so I have some insight of what
it's like to deal with mental health
issue while you're at Cambridge so yeah
I mean I don't know everything about it
and I certainly don't know how it's
handled at different colleges since
Cambridge it's a Canadian university so
yeah let's see what they're saying now
before we watch the documentary we will
take a look at their website because
they have a website where they have
summarized some of their findings and
questions that you know the documentary
raised so we're first of all look at
that see what we're getting ourselves
into and then we'll watch the
documentary the documentary film
positions itself as an emotive
experiential understanding of dementia
helpline scape at Cambridge University
okay and apparently take more method
article and open-ended approach alright
and they have apparently refrain from
making conclusions so they're just gonna
give us the picture of what it's like
and we can then you know from our own
opinion okay and okay they have all
their findings and unanswered questions
here so basically you know if you don't
have the time to watch you tyre
documentary you can go here and just
look at this that's beautiful you can
actually just like download it like
that's really great because you know
they make it easy to you know look at
the findings which I like and I
appreciate um okay who made this though
oh okay
this is student-led alright that's
important so it's student-led research
so we know it comes from the perspective
of students in terms of you know like
how did they start planning this you
know what were their questions it
probably came through your mind alright
I think that's great because I mean it's
probably about students mental health
maybe there's a bit about teachers meant
to go for supervisors meant to hope I
don't know but I would guess it's
probably mostly about students okay and
you can watch the film here it's on
YouTube anybody can go and watch it and
yep that's what we're gonna do now
yeah this is great I have it pinned up
somewhere somewhere on my wall there's
this bit from under the volcano by
Malcolm Lowry it has this wonderful
excerpt from it on on being in Cambridge
sort of being almost sort of seasick
from from walking around on this this
shifting ship of a place that really
puts you into this dizzying spiral if
you're not incredibly careful and
level-headed coming into it I definitely
did not come in incredibly careful and
level-headed thank you just say honesty
also who is this guy like he sounds so
cool like that he just like has like
poetry or prose about Cambridge on his
wall Wow like he sounds pretty amazing
like I would love to like meet him and
have a conversation with him because he
sounds really interesting okay can I
just say so far the quality of the
footage and of the editing has been
really high like I like it quite a lot
um I wasn't sure you know what this was
going to look like because it says
student-led um and I don't know how much
time each of them spent on it but this
looks really really impressive
ouch I guess they're gonna statistic
that the university doesn't put on their
website to brag about
[Music]
okay I feel like this music makes
University's response sound really bad
because the music is so negative and you
know like I don't know why he chose this
music because I think the universities
response was absolutely valid and made a
lot of sense because to survey only ask
people if they thought that they had
suffered from depression not were you
diagnosed as clinically depressed and
those are two very very different things
because a lot of people nowadays use the
term I'm depressed for saying I'm sad
today it doesn't mean you're clinically
depressed depression is an illness so
just asking people oh do you think
you're depressed I know that that's not
you know the right approach for
measuring mental health the other thing
is only a thousand seven hundred
something undergraduates responded to
the survey but Cambridge has a lot more
undergraduate students now you could
argue okay but you will never you know
interview everybody for something like
that sure but how did they choose who
responds to it is it just oh we have mr.
B would you like to participate or did
they actually look okay how many people
on treatment
how many dad how many dad probably not
so I don't think the university's
response was as bad as the music makes
it sound far as I'm aware when people
say situational or temporal depression
what they actually are referring to is
what we'd now call adjustment disorder
it's a maladaptive reaction to an
identifiable psychosocial stressor or
multiple stressors that cause a
significant impairment in personal
family social educational occupational
or other areas of functioning okay I
think this segment is actually really
important because I was just saying oh
you know some people say I'm depressed
but they're not clinically depressed and
I didn't know that something like
adjustment disorder exists which you
know might be with some people might be
going through when they say I'm
depressed and you you know have like
temporary symptoms of depression I don't
know I thought this was just really
interesting because I had no idea it
exists so yeah I think this is a really
informative part which sheds light on
something that was probably less
well-known than other mental illnesses
like anxiety or depression success at
Cambridge would be to get the best grade
you could possibly go
yeah that he's you know if you've come
in and you've got poor average 2:1 for
instance but you know deep down you
could go first
now we'll call that success you've let
yourself down
what can we hear that clip again I won't
call that success you've let yourself
down okay I disagree with this so much
because your success at university
doesn't have to be about the grades you
get okay for some people success in
university might just be graduating okay
some people go through stuff during the
time at university and I'll see
sometimes the only thing that they can
manage that point in time is you know
just somehow get through it other people
go to university not for graduating with
the best grades but maybe for learning
but also for you know continuing to row
and putting a lot of energy into that
other people focus on volunteering or
whatever and I think it's absolutely
valid if grades matter a lot to you it's
also absolutely valid if you spend all
your time on that but please don't you
know waste your time and university by
only focusing on getting the best grade
possible because at the end of the day
not everybody can graduate with a
starred first-class degree I remember
being told by an academic that if you
want to get it first so if you're
writing your exams and you can't write I
know that this issue is real because I
know quite a few of my friends um had
academics tell them something seminar
and in all honesty I don't know why I
could M extinct that you know that does
anything good because you do need some
downtime so if you're doing
extracurricular since I was trying to
shame you for it don't let them you know
talk you out of doing any
extracurriculars tool because you need
some downtime you need to do something
that isn't about your degree a
particular competitive intense
environment
it's of chronic stress and anxiety and
worries their shortness if it turns very
short times horrible I think we all just
heard this like music which is like a
pulse and then you know all these like
short clips cut together and then it
just explodes in this horrible I don't
think that is a way of editing if you
don't draw any conclusions they may not
tell you oh this is the conclusion we
draw but the editing clearly draw some
conclusions and paints a very clear
picture of the situation in your head so
what I say that they are really not
throwing any conclusions oh not really I
mean the editing does tell you what they
think they may not have spelled it out
for you but they didn't have to how good
your mental health is isn't necessarily
how could your colleges how could your
subject is how good is the person who is
willing to vote for you I think it makes
a really important point because of
somebody who intimates it herself I can
tell you that there is a very small
circle of people who you can talk to
about this and who will then eventually
help you intimate or you know get some
support whatever and it's really hard to
find someone outside that circle who
could vouch for you so because normally
you just talk to your tutor who's
responsible for you know your personal
well-being so that's you know an obvious
choice sometimes the director of studies
because if you do have a mental health
condition you probably want to tell them
so that they know it might affect your
academics and potentially in your
college nose or a counselor but the two
people who really matter are you tutor
and you director of studies and when it
comes to an intermission actually only
you tutor really matters because your
tutors the person write the letter to
the committee which decides whether you
should be granted intermission and you
know you cheetah can write whatever in
that letter you don't get to see that
letter you don't get to write anything
to the committee it's just your tutor so
if your tutor wouldn't take
mental-health issues seriously you'd
have a really really big problem here if
you needed an intermission now I don't
know how teachers get prepared by
university for situations like this so I
don't want to say that there are any
tutors who don't
here about mental health I know that my
tutor was really really great in dealing
with my issue she was super super
supportive so I can only tell you that
my experience was incredibly positive
but I do agree that you have a very very
small circle of people that can help you
and you really depend on the bag that
they are supportive and if they are not
it can be really hard to find someone
else you could talk to event meeting
with my tutor now and you'll say well
you know I I don't know what you expect
me to do or I go to him with something
that I've heard from the student advice
service and the Disability Resource
Center they say you know you should
apply for an exam warning and say okay
I'll apply for an exam warning and I go
and ask my tutor if I can apply for an
exam warning he says well we don't I
mean we don't do those anymore and I say
okay well this this list of people has
told me that you do do these still and
that it's a good idea to have one given
you know my circumstance and that is
what I'm trying to do now and he said
well I don't know if they know what
they're talking about I'm really sorry
that he you know goes through all the
right steps to get support and then
somebody just tells him no we don't do
it anymore um every person who does need
our and then gets told new you know we
don't have that support anymore whatever
there's one person too many and I just
want to get really really clear but I
also do want to say that this is not the
only way it can go if you're dealing
with mental health issues at Cambridge
um my experience was really the opposite
of what he just described my cue to my
director of studies and my college nurse
was super supportive
they were always emailing me me hey
here's another resource and why don't we
meet next week and whatever and they
made sure that you know I knew I had all
the support and where I could get more
support if I needed it so I just want to
let you know that if you're someone who
is struggling with mental health issues
and you're thinking whether Cambridge
could be a good fit for you it can go
really really different than that
and I'm really sorry that this happened
to this guy and as I said every person
who has happens to is one too many in a
university needs to improve that but I
just want to let you know
this is not the only way it can go if
you have a mental health issue to go
into those situations and to sort of
have to grovel almost and beg for
support or to go through this really
lengthy process of documentation where
you're sort of guilty until proven
innocent that doesn't contribute to
anything feeling any better
okay like I keep like listening to it
I'm just like oh I feel really really
sorry for you and I like him since he
was introduced in the documentary so
yeah I just want to give him a big hug
what off the conveyor belt and you have
no idea what to do what happens to your
funding what happens to your student
loan what happens to your room what
happens to your exam and no one says
anything about that okay so I'm not
saying that his experience isn't true
but um I just say this is really not how
it went for me when I intimate it the
college did tell me all of these things
so you know when I was about make the
decision of which intimate or not I said
well you know I'm really concerned
because I really need my bursary you
know really a scholarship so to call it
strict into that and then they got back
to me about it so you know it can go
really really different and I mean I
don't know you know how to process was
for him and I'm not trying to say that
you know anything about that isn't true
but in all honesty the college dealt
really really different with me and I
think I had more of an overload of
information almost rather than not
enough information so yeah don't be too
worried about that and if there's
anything that they aren't telling you
that you need to know you can ask them
you can email them anytime even after
you've been to mitad it's not like
they're not going to reply to you you're
not totally gone even now I'm in touch
with my director of studies so um no
you're not totally just gone at least I
wouldn't say so and I spend a lot of
time frightened to to go back into
college like just as a as members of the
public are allowed to visit for example
but I felt really intimidated from going
back actually you're not supposed to
come back into college while unit
submission and there is a guidance
document which says exactly that and
it's sent to everybody who's
intermitting and if you do want to come
back you can ask
mission and then you can come back but
equally we have to be realistic about
the amount of pressure that were under
in terms of time and resource
I do not like this editing um you know
he just said oh you know we have to
remember in a constrained in terms of
resources and then you know they pull
out this graph and they're like oh but
have you seen the billions of pounds and
your endowment yes
the university does have billions of
pounds and their endowment and guess
what they cannot just go ahead take
these billions and spend them that would
be a really really bad idea so instead
they take these billions of pounds and
they invest them so that they have more
money um and that they also have money a
hundred years on the road and five
hundred years down the road the
university has to plan ahead so I think
it's really really unfair to just you
know take all the money that they
theoretically have in terms of assets
but that they actually can't spend so if
you want to make a more honest approach
why don't you actually look into the
university's financing plans and look at
how much the university and the colleges
allow themselves to spend each year and
then remember they don't just have to
pay from it to help do stuff to pay for
things like teaching because it's the
university you also have to maintain all
their buildings pay to staff etcetera
etcetera etcetera there's a lot of
expenses that a university has and even
though Cambridge theoretically has a lot
of money they also have a lot of
expenses so don't just pull up a graph
and be like oh they have this billion
pound endowment it's not as easy as that
and I don't think that this editing was
very fair towards the university
university counseling service is
excellent but resourcing is people from
the University why don't you email each
other before you give these interviews
like why don't you ask each other okay
so what is the narrative that you know
we want to share off the public you can
I would say we are very well resourced
at the counseling service or you can say
you know resourcing is an issue here
which one of the two is it gonna be I
don't want my students to intimate
partly because I will lose money if they
do my life becomes more financially
unstable
if I make that kind of recommendation
that's a lot of money to lose right and
so you obviously don't want your
students to enter MIT I don't know how I
feel about this clip on the one hand
okay
he's being honest that's good at I guess
and I understand you know he's a teacher
he needs to finance his living he needs
to eat and food costs money I get that
but at the same time you would want your
students mental help to suffer for that
and I guess in a way my compassion for
him is limited by the fact that he
signed a contract with the University
and somewhere in that contract and will
have said that you know if you don't
teach a student we don't pay you for
that student and if you've done your
research on your employer you will know
that intermission is an option for
students and I mean if you're a teacher
you'd probably want your students to be
healthy I guess hopefully that's
something that I would consider a very
positive quality of a teacher so yeah I
understand he you know needs money as
well but at the same time I don't know
he knew about that risk when he took
that job didn't he
I'm not you know saying he's doing a
terrible thing here we're saying that
he's at least being honest but I think
also says a lot that he wasn't willing
to say that on camera with his face and
name there so he does know that there's
something that's somewhat wrong about
this but I also get it you know he needs
to earn his money as well one of my
friends his his supervisor deliberately
arranged supervision on Saturdays to
stop people doing extracurricular
activities what does this supervisor
have a life coz it really doesn't sound
like it
[Music]
okay guys we made it for the documentary
so yeah it's been an interesting 54
minutes of my life cuz yeah that's how
long this documentary is um so yeah
whatever come in this documentary now
after spending 54 minutes of my life on
it um I'm not sure I would definitely
recommend their website and I think it's
great you know this video summarized
everything that they found there so you
know you can basically get the
information that you could get in 54
minutes from 5 to 10 minutes of reading
so yeah definitely would recommend the
website I'm gonna get any info box below
and you can also watch the entire
documentary there but would I recommend
the documentary if you're interested in
like learning more about it yeah
probably but at the same time I would
recommend watching it with a bit like of
a critical eye I guess because um the
people that they chose to be in this
documentary and the way they edited some
things were in my opinion drawing
conclusions that I say they don't draw
conclusions but I felt like they were at
some stages just like you know when you
cut from one scene to the next and like
what are you cutting to what music are
you using I don't think there were some
conclusions that were being drawn now
they just say it's a motive so yeah
probably that's why but I do think that
they are emotive editing draws
conclusions that's just my take on it um
and so yeah I think you know they could
have portrayed this a bit differently if
they had also chosen more people with
positive experiences of mental health
and Cambridge because there are people
who have positive experiences of how the
University helps them with their mental
health issue and I can say that because
I am one of them but I didn't really see
a lot of that now of course if you're
doing a documentary you do you know want
to raise awareness of the issue and Todd
show where it's going well I guess but I
think if you if you want to paint a more
honest picture that should have been in
there as well so yeah I would tell you
were given the website it's linked any
infobox below and if you're interested
and then you know spank fifty four
minutes of your life and watching that
then go for it so yeah that's it for
today's video I hope you guys enjoyed it
and if you guys have a different take on
the documentary please let me know in
the comments below or you can also
the message for the conic section of my
blog which is linked in the infobox
below thank you guys so much for
watching have a nice day bye